# Event Map Extension for Radiant

This extension adds mapping to the [event_calendar](http://github.com/radiant/radiant-event-calendar-extension). It will geocode your events automatically based on the address of the venue, or you can supply a postal code, UK postcode or grid reference for greater precision.

Events can be displayed on a google map and you can create links to bing or google maps that display the location of each event.

## Installation

As of version 1.5.0 this extension is only compatible with radiant 1.0 and should be installed as a gem:

	gem install radiant-event_map-extension
	
and then in your radiant application's Gemfile:

	gem 'radiant-event_map-extension', '~> 1.4.0'

## Requirements

These will be installed automatically when you install the gem:

* [event_calendar](http://github.com/radiant/radiant-event-calendar-extension) extension version 1.5 or greater
* [layouts](http://github.com/squaretalent/radiant-layouts-extension) or [share_layouts](http://github.com/radiant/radiant-share-layouts-extension) extension
* [geokit](http://geokit.rubyforge.org/) gem

## Configuration

There is one required config setting if you're using the full-page map controller:

* `event_map.layout` is the name of the layout used by the controller

If you're only using the `events:googlemap` radius tag then this isn't required.

## Basic Usage

### Linking to maps

We override the `url` method of EventVenue to return a map link if no other url is defined. The format of those links is determined by the link template stored in the config setting `event_map.link_format`. The markers :lat, :lng and :title will be replaced with the the correct value for each event venue.

There are also two shortcuts: 

* 'google' is the default and equivalent to `http://maps.google.com/maps?q=:lat+:lng+(:title)` and will drop a pin on a google map.
* 'bing' is equivalent to `http://www.bing.com/maps/?v=2&cp=:lat~:lng&rtp=~pos.:lat_:lng_:title&lvl=15&sty=s&eo=0`, which will display a 1:25000 ordnance survey map (if you're in the UK) with a destination flag at your chosen point.

### Placing a map on one of your pages

For simple uses this radius tag might suffice:

	<r:events:googlemap [calendar="slug"] />

For more searchability you need to use the full-page map controller.

### Displaying a map page

Create a layout that includes a `map_canvas` div and these page parts:

* `map_js` is required. It brings in the javascripts (and can be used in the header or at the end of the page as you prefer)
* `title` is the page title and can also be shown with `r:title`
* `faceting` gives the option to remove any date filters that have been applied. If you add the `taggable_events` extension it gets more useful.

Here's a starting point:

	<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
	  <head>
	    <title><r:title /></title>
	    <r:content part="map_js" />
	  </head>
	  <body>
       <h1 id="pagetitle"><r:title /></h1>
			<r:content part="faceting" />
			<div id="map_canvas" style="width: 600px; height 400px;"></div>
	  </body>
	</html>

Make sure that `Radiant::Config['event_map.layout']` matches exactly the _name_ of this layout.

### custom markers

To display a different marker for (events in) each calendar, set `Radiant::Config['event_map.use_calendar_icons?']` to true and then create shadow and marker files at paths like these:

* /images/map_icons/slug.png
* /images/map_icons/slug_shadow.png

where 'slug' is the slug of each calendar. Basic pin and shadow images are included for you to modify and name appropriately.

If a venue has several events then the first will event will set the marker.

NB. we're not doing anything fancy here with offsets or masks: if you need that kind of detail then a bit more javascript is required.

### javascript compatibility

The map javascript is generated by the EventVenuesController using `app/views/event_venues/index.js.erb`. You should find that it automatically populates the map with or without jquery present.

### JSON interface

If you don't want to use the included scripts, you can skip that whole mechanism and work with the event data instead. EventVenuesController provides a simple JSON interface. Usually it's at /map and looks for addresses like this:

		/map								everything
		/map/2010							events in 2010
		/map/2010/12/						events in December 2010
		/map/2010/12/12						events on 12 December 2010

If you're using `taggable_events` then we also inherit the tag-faceting interface here.

## Bugs and features

[Github issues](http://github.com/spanner/radiant-event_map-extension/issues) please, or for little things an email or github message is fine.

## Author & Copyright

Copyright 2008-2011 Will at spanner.org.

Released under the same terms as Radiant and/or Rails.
